Add an example for event BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent (#2143)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-CoreApi: Documentation/ApiOverview/Events/Events/Linkvalidator/BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent.rst

Event that is fired to modify results (= add results) or modify the record
before the :doc:`LinkValidator <ext_linkvalidator:Index>` analyzes the record.

Example
=======

> In this example we are checking if there are external links containing the url

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example we are checking if there are external links containing the URL
```

of the project itself as editors tend to set external links on internal pages
at times.

> The following code has to be put in a custom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code can be put in a custom
```

"has to be put" -> nope, can also be a site package or a full-blown extension.

the method is called :php:`handleEvent`:

..  code-block:: php
    :caption: EXT:my_extension/Classes/EventListener/Linkvalidator/BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEventListener.php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace Vendor\MyExtension\EventListener\Linkvalidator;

    use TYPO3\CMS\Linkvalidator\Event\BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent;

    class BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEventListener
    {

        public function handleEvent(BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent $event): void
        {
            // do something
        }
    }

The listener must then be registered in the extensions :php:`Services.yaml`:

..  code-block:: yaml
    :caption: EXT:my_extension/Configuration/Services.yaml

    services:
        _defaults:
            autowire: true
            autoconfigure: true
            public: false

        Vendor\MyExtension\:
            resource: '../Classes/*'
            exclude: '../Classes/Domain/Model/*'

        Vendor\MyExtension\EventListener\Linkvalidator\BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEventListener:
            tags:
                - name: event.listener
                  method: handleEvent
                  identifier: 'myExtensionBeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEventListener'

>                   event: TYPO3\CMS\Linkvalidator\Event\BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent

Reviewer: "event" not necessary since v11 anymore.

For the implementation we need the :php:`BrokenLinkRepository` to register
additional link errors and the :php:`SoftReferenceParserFactory` so we can
automatically parse for links. These two classes have to be injected via
:ref:`dependeny injection <Dependency-Injection>`:

..  code-block:: php
    :caption: EXT:my_extension/Classes/EventListener/Linkvalidator/BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEventListener.php

    use TYPO3\CMS\Core\DataHandling\SoftReference\SoftReferenceParserFactory;
    use TYPO3\CMS\Linkvalidator\Event\BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent;
    use TYPO3\CMS\Linkvalidator\Repository\BrokenLinkRepository;

>     class BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEventListener

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    final class BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEventListener
```

Would prefer to define it final (opinionated). We also use this in other examples of events.

    {

>         protected BrokenLinkRepository $brokenLinkRepository;

Reviewer: Set to private instead protected.

        protected SoftReferenceParserFactory $softReferenceParserFactory;

        public function __construct(
            BrokenLinkRepository $brokenLinkRepository,
            SoftReferenceParserFactory $softReferenceParserFactory
        ) {
            $this->brokenLinkRepository = $brokenLinkRepository;
            $this->softReferenceParserFactory = $softReferenceParserFactory;
        }
    }

In this example we only check the field :sql:`bodytext` of new tables:

..  code-block:: php
    :caption: EXT:my_extension/Classes/EventListener/Linkvalidator/BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEventListener.php

>     public function handleEvent(BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent $event): void

Reviewer: Any specific reason why using handleEvent over __invoke method?

    {
        $table = $event->getTableName();
        $forbiddenDomain = 'example.org';

>         if ($table == 'tx_news_domain_model_news') {

Reviewer: Suggestion, use negative condition (`$table !== ...`) and return early. This avoids at least on indentation. Also use indentical check, not equal check as best practise.

            $results = $event->getResults();
            $newsItem = $event->getRecord();
            // a quick check if the forbidden domain is contained at all

>             if (strpos((string) $newsItem['bodytext'], $forbiddenDomain) !== false) {

Reviewer: You can use str_contains as symfony/polyfill-php80 is delivered with TYPO3 v11 and therefore available in all installations. It reads better than strpos.
Also use negative condition with an early return, this avoids one more indentation and improves readability of the code.

                $field = 'bodytext';
                $conf = $GLOBALS['TCA']['tx_news_domain_model_news']['columns']['bodytext']['config'];
                // parse the field

>                 foreach ($this->softReferenceParserFactory->getParsersBySoftRefParserList($conf['softref'], ['subst']) as $softReferenceParser) {

Reviewer: Can we split up these one or two of the foreaches into separate methods with speaking names what is done? This would improve readability a lot.

                    $parserResult = $softReferenceParser->parse($table, $field, $newsItem['uid'], $newsItem['bodytext']);
                    if (!$parserResult->hasMatched()) {
                        continue;
                    }
                    // act on each link found
                    foreach ($parserResult->getMatchedElements() as $matchedElement) {

>                         // if it contains the forbidden domain, subdomains would also be allerted here

Reviewer: allerted? You mean "alerted"?

                        if ($matchedElement['subst'] && $matchedElement['subst']['tokenValue']

>                             && strpos($matchedElement['subst']['tokenValue'] . '', $forbiddenDomain) !== false) {

Reviewer: Use str_contains instead of strpos, as polyfill is in place for v11.

Author: I though this only works starting with PHP 8.0 and v11 still supports 7.4?

Reviewer: Polyfill is in place in v11, so it can be used safely: https://github.com/TYPO3/typo3/blob/11.5/composer.json#L88

                            // create an entry for the table tx_linkvalidator_link
                            $link = [
                                'record_uid' => $newsItem['uid'],
                                'record_pid' => $newsItem['pid'],
                                'language' => $newsItem['sys_language_uid'],
                                'field' => $field,
                                'table_name' => $table,
                                'url' => $matchedElement['subst']['tokenValue'],
                                'last_check' => time(),
                                'link_type' => 'external',
                            ];
                            // Insert it into the repository with

>                             // A meaningfull exception text and a unique error number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                            // a meaningful exception text and a unique error number
```

                            $this->brokenLinkRepository->addBrokenLink($link, false, [
                                'errorType' => 'exception',
                                'exception' => 'Do not link externally to ' . $forbiddenDomain,

>                                 'errno' => 42]);

Reviewer: What is this errno 42? Is it a fixed value somewhere defined or just a random value for this case? Would prefer a class constant with a speaking name to make it clear.

The listener must then be registered in the extensions :php:`Services.yaml`:

..  code-block:: yaml
    :caption: EXT:examples/Configuration/Services.yaml

    services:
       _defaults:
          autowire: true
          autoconfigure: true
          public: false

       T3docs\Examples\:
          resource: '../Classes/*'
          exclude: '../Classes/Domain/Model/*'

       T3docs\Examples\EventListener\LinkValidator\CheckExternalLinksToLocalPagesEventListener:
          tags:
             - name: event.listener
               identifier: 'txExampleCheckExternalLinksToLocalPages'

For the implementation we need the :php:`BrokenLinkRepository` to register
additional link errors and the :php:`SoftReferenceParserFactory` so we can
automatically parse for links. These two classes have to be injected via
:ref:`dependeny injection <Dependency-Injection>`:

..  include:: /CodeSnippets/Events/Linkvalidator/BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent/ExampleInject.rst.txt

Now we use the :php:`SoftReferenceParserFactory` to find all registered link
parsers for soft reference. Then we apply each of these parsers in turn to

> to configured field in the current record. For each link found we can now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the configured field in the current record. For each link found we can now
```

match if it is an external link to an internal page.

..  include:: /CodeSnippets/Events/Linkvalidator/BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent/ParseFields.rst.txt

> If the url found in the matching is external and contains the local domain name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the URL found in the matching is external and contains the local domain name
```

we add the an entry to the :php:`BrokenLinkRepository` and to the result set of
:php:`BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent`.

..  include:: /CodeSnippets/Events/Linkvalidator/BeforeRecordIsAnalyzedEvent/AddToBrokenLinkRepository.rst.txt

The :php:`BrokenLinkRepository` is not an Extbase repository but a repository
based on the :ref:`Doctrine database abstraction (DBAL) <Database_Introduction>`.

> It therefore expects an array with the names of the database fields as entry and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It therefore expects an array with the names of the table fields as argument and
```

not an Extbase model. The method internally uses
:php:`TYPO3\CMS\Core\Database\Connection::insert`. This method automatically
quotes all identifiers and values, we therefore do not worry about escaping here.

..  tip::
    It is recommended to always use a unique error number. An easy way to ensure

>     the error number to be unique is to use the current unix timestamp of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the error number to be unique is to use the current Unix timestamp of the
```
